
# AriEmozione:  Identifying Emotions in Opera Verses

by
Francesco Fernicola,
Shibingfeng Zhang,
Federico Garcea,
Paolo Bonora,
and
Alberto Barron-Cedeno

This paper has been submitted for publication at the Seventh Italian Conference on Computational Linguistics (CLiC-it 2020).

Our main task was to identify  the  emotion  expressed  in  a  verse,  in the context of an aria.


## Abstract

We present a new task:  the identification  of  emotions  transmitted in Italian opera arias at the verse level. This is a relevant problem for the organization  of  the  vast repertoire of  Italian Opera arias and to enable further analyses by both musicologists and the lay  public. 
We  shape  the  task  as  a multi-class supervised problem considering  six  emotions. In  order  to  address it, we manually-annotated a corpus with 2.5k verses — which we release to  the  research  community—  and  experimented with different classification models and representations.  We reach macro-averaged  F1 measures  of∼0.45. Such performance reflects the difficulty of the task at hand, partially caused by the size and nature of the data — shortverses written in 18th-century Italian.


## Data and Experiments

The corpus used in this study is available at
https://zenodo.org/record/4022318

The full batch of results generated by the code is available at
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Ztjry2mJs6ufCZM1O5CQRyZ8pA5YDnToN0h0NGX1nW0/edit?usp=sharing



## Getting the code

You can download a copy of all the files in this repository by cloning the
[git](https://git-scm.com/) repository:

    git clone https://github.com/Zhangshibf/Aria-emotions.git

